- [Instructor] Identity plays an important role
in digital security and microservices are not an exception.
Some microservice security schemes choose
to simply trust the network after a request
has passed a certain point in the architecture.
Services within a certain segment of the network
are simply permitted to call each other without any scrutiny
of the request or identification of the calling party.
This breaks the important concept of defense in depth
and creates a major vulnerability
if an attacker breaches the network
because they now have unimpeded access to the microservices
in a deployment.
Large segments of the network shouldn't be established
as trust boundaries.
Instead, the trust boundary
should be the microservice itself.
The microservice should not trust any external information
or parties by default.
Instead, the microservice should verify the identity
of any calling party and the integrity
of the information it receives.
This is the concept of zero trust and we can incorporate it
into how our microservices communicate to add some depth
to our defense.
Digital certificates are the most common way
to assert the identity of a digital entity.
A digital certificate contains information
that identifies an entity, a public key
and information regarding the certificate authority
that issued it.
in transport layer security or TLS,
a digital certificate and PKI allow two parties
to communicate information via an encrypted channel.
This is established using a certificate
and an encryption key that are exchanged.
In the scenario, it's only one way authentication
using the certificate because the server
hasn't verified the identity of the client
using its digital cert.
It's only the client that verifies the server's identity,
checking that its certificate was issued by a trusted list
of certificate authorities maintained in the browser.
You've most likely seen this in your browser
when visiting a sensitive website,
like an online banking platform.
A little lock displaced to the left of the URL,
where you can see the website cert.
The digital certificate allows you to verify
that it's actually your bank's website and not a spoof site
that tends to steal your credentials.
Because our browser trusts the certificate authority
that issued the bank cert, we know the site can be trusted.
Additionally, it's an indicator that our browser
is communicating with the web server securely over TLS.
So we can be sure that any information we send
is not in clear text.
To secure microservices, we can take the concept
of TLS one step further by implementing mutual TLS.
When using mutual TLS, both parties authenticate
by providing their digital certificate that was issued
by a mutually trusted certificate authority
before the secure channel is established.
Mutual TLS is one of the most common approaches
for securing microservices use today.
It allows the services
to identify each other and be confident
in each other's identity before communicating.
When using mutual TLS, each microservice is deployed
with a certificate and private and public key pair
that allows them to identify each other
when they communicate and to establish secure connections.
Additionally, mutual TLS should be used
to secure the communication between the API gateway
and the microservice deployment.
This adds an extra level of protection
because if an attacker found their way into the network,
they couldn't call a microservice
without a trusted digital certificate.
This is the depth in our defense.
One of the challenges with mutual TLS is management
and provisioning of the certificates.
Most microservices are hosted in a femoral containers
that will spin up and down on a whim.
So provisioning a certificates needs to be automated.
There is also the problem of how we rotate certificates
that are about to expire.
This should also be handled via automation
because of the number of instances we can spin up
of a microservice.
While this may seem overwhelming,
there are container orchestrators and service meshes
that have built in features for managing mutual TLS.
Configuring mutual TLS capabilities adds another layer
of security to your microservices
that is extremely effective and worth the effort.
If you choose to trust the network,
be aware you're putting your microservices at risk.